(funky music)
Welcome to part two of the course,
which deals with protecting your money.
Actors that actually win Oscars live five years longer
than actors that don't,
and the reason is because they feel a sense
of accomplishment and peace of mind.
Imagine how much longer you could live
or how much healthier you could be
if you had financial peace of mind.
And so by the end of part two of this course,
my goal is not only to help you protect your loved ones,
your possessions and money,
but also to feel more in control
of your financial assets, meaning the stuff you own,
so that you don't ever worry about the future
or your financial wellbeing, okay?
Or at least minimize that worry a lot.
And I love this quote from Winston Churchill.
He once said, "When I look back on all these worries,
"I remember the story of the old man
"who sat on his deathbed, that he had a lot of trouble
"in his life, most of which never happened."
I know my English accent's not very good.
I'm trying.
(laughing)
Let me just put this fake Oscar down
so we can talk about the what, why and how
of this course.
So let me kick it off with the what
by the end of part two of this course,
you're gonna understand what you own and what you owe,
meaning we'll create your personal balance sheet.
Why?
So we can calculate your net worth
and so we can look at protecting what you have,
and more importantly, what you will have money-wise
later in life, which will be way more
than you expect, okay?
Lastly, how.
How can we sleep better knowing
that our current and future net worth is protected?
Well, what we're gonna do is we're gonna do a number
of exercises to kinda help us understand
how to protect our loved ones and our nest egg,
including types of insurance, types of wills,
types of trusts, types of tax shelters
and protecting against identity theft.
And don't worry.
It's not gonna be boring.
Whenever people hear the word insurance,
they're like oh my God, I'm do bored.
It's not gonna be boring.
You'll enjoy it.
And so here in part two of the course,
we're also gonna discuss your credit score
and how to improve it,
and we're gonna discuss software based organizing strategies
for your money and a non-computer based paper filing
organization system I created that is not that advanced,
but will make you much more comfortable
with having control over your finances.
And so we're also gonna discuss how to make sure
that you're not getting ripped off with banking fees
by choosing the right bank for you, okay?
And we'll talk about whether a financial advisor
is right for you or not.
In most cases, it's not, but I'll still cover that.
And a financial advisor is different from an accountant.
And we're also gonna discuss tax shelters
for your retirement and your children's education
if applicable.
And we're gonna discuss how the wealthiest people
in the world protect their money.
And so by end of part two of this course,
you're gonna have a solid knowledge
of how to protect your money,
and then after that, we're gonna discuss
how to make money or make more money
or make your money work for you in part three of the course.
So let's begin by calculating your net worth
in the next lecture.
Thanks.